README.md, before:

# Microscopy Data Acquisition

### What
This software downloads certain microscopy dataset from various sources including [EMPIAR](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/empiar/EMPIAR-11759/), [EPFL](https://www.epfl.ch/labs/cvlab/data/data-em/), [Janelia](https://openorganelle.janelia.org/datasets/jrc_mus-nacc-2), [OpenMicroScopy](https://idr.openmicroscopy.org/webclient/img_detail/9846137/?dataset=10740), and [Hemibrain](https://tinyurl.com/hemibrain-ng)

### How
Prerequisites: `git` and `docker`
1. `$ git clone https://github.com/shuchenliu/microscopy-data-acquisition.git` to clone this repo
2. `$ docker-compose up --build -d` to start a docker container named `microscopy-data`
3. `$ docker exec -it microscopy-data python orchestration.py` to start the data query process. This commands will display an interface showing related information.

Datasets will be written to `./data`, as the directory is mounted to the docker container as an output volume. A meta-data table can be viewed at the './data' directory's [README](./data/README.md).

### Misc
1. The total downloading time could be over 10 minutes, depending on the geolocation and local bandwidth. For example, the direct download offered by `EPFL` originates from their server in Switzerland and thus may take the longest time. In comparison, the data syncing from Janelia, querying files hosted in AWS's `N.Virginia` zone, may take a fraction of time used while ~3 times larger in size.
2. Tools considerations:
   - `aria2`: EPFL's endpoint supports multi-part and multi-connection, which is a good use case for `aria2` instead of `curl`
   - `s5cmd` is used instead of `AWS-cli` to sync data from Janelia, since it's utilizing Golang's worker pool to read/write files, which is suitable for transferring directory storage (.zarr) files
   - while `EMPIAR` offers ftp server access similar to that of OpenMicroScopy, as well as `Aspera CLI` for data syncing, the target dataset here is only around `~1.3G`, and can be accessed as an archive directly from their `/get_zip` endpoint. Therefore, the simple `curl` is used to query the single, compressed file.

Commit message:

update README to reflect changes on parallel mechanism

README.md, after:

# Microscopy Data Acquisition

### What
This software downloads certain microscopy dataset from various sources including [EMPIAR](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/empiar/EMPIAR-11759/), [EPFL](https://www.epfl.ch/labs/cvlab/data/data-em/), [Janelia](https://openorganelle.janelia.org/datasets/jrc_mus-nacc-2), [OpenMicroScopy](https://idr.openmicroscopy.org/webclient/img_detail/9846137/?dataset=10740), and [Hemibrain](https://tinyurl.com/hemibrain-ng)

### How
Prerequisites: `git` and `docker`
1. `$ git clone https://github.com/shuchenliu/microscopy-data-acquisition.git` to clone this repo
2. `$ docker-compose up --build -d` to start a docker container named `microscopy-data`
3. `$ docker exec -it microscopy-data python orchestration.py` to start the data query process. This commands will display an interface showing related information.

Datasets will be written to `./data`, as the directory is mounted to the docker container as an output volume. A meta-data table can be viewed at the './data' directory's [README](./data/README.md).

### Benchmark
The software runs task groups in sequence, with parallel execution of tasks within each group.

While the EPFL bottleneck dictates the total run time and keeps it comparable to the previous method (~1200s), this new parallel-sequential approach makes smaller datasets available much faster.

Parallel - *previous version*
![parallel](./misc/parallel.png)


*Parallel sequential*
![sequential-parallel](./misc/sequential-parallel.png)

### Misc
1. The total downloading time could be over 10 minutes, depending on the geolocation and local bandwidth. For example, the direct download offered by `EPFL` originates from their server in Switzerland and thus may take the longest time. In comparison, the data syncing from Janelia, querying files hosted in AWS's `N.Virginia` zone, may take a fraction of time used while ~3 times larger in size.
2. Tools considerations:
   - `aria2`: EPFL's endpoint supports multi-part and multi-connection, which is a good use case for `aria2` instead of `curl`
   - `s5cmd` is used instead of `AWS-cli` to sync data from Janelia, since it's utilizing Golang's worker pool to read/write files, which is suitable for transferring directory storage (.zarr) files
   - while `EMPIAR` offers ftp server access similar to that of OpenMicroScopy, as well as `Aspera CLI` for data syncing, the target dataset here is only around `~1.3G`, and can be accessed as an archive directly from their `/get_zip` endpoint. Therefore, the simple `curl` is used to query the single, compressed file.
